One of the key stages is the interview, and the interview is an art.
I think that in the interview, we all have lived the interviews from the position of being interviewed and interviewing.
There are many tips that are given about the interviews, which are the usual tips, which are almost common sense.
But I want us to review a series of tips that we can apply and analyze a little why it is important to take it into account.
The first tip I would give to anyone is that the interview must be prepared.
Why? Because depending on what you are looking for, to be efficient in the process and know that the candidate has what you are looking for,
you have to put practical cases, examples, and all that, or you have it structured and previously planned,
or you are going to do an interview with a candidate and another, with which you will not be able to compare.
It will be bullshit, because it will have nothing to do with an interview that you have not prepared, with another, which will be random.
I'm going to tell you what happens in reality, because you do that well, and what happens in the real world of companies
is that suddenly a candidate comes, because there is a process and you have to interview him.
And then you have not prepared anything, I feel bad, and you do the interview.
And it turns out that you want to know if that person is, as we say, a series of values.
There are topics that you know very well about feeling, about culture, if you understand that person well, but there are others that are more difficult.
For example, I always say that of micro entrepreneurs.
And it turns out that I sit with another person, we sit down, we have not prepared anything,
we ask him some questions, as you say, to the next, or to the next we ask him other questions,
we already have a mess, we do not do it, not preparing it is a waste of time, because you lose that interview.
It is an inefficiency, total inefficiency.
And sometimes, if there are cases to prepare, it takes a long time to prepare.
If there are cases that you have to put, because it is the only way to assess if that person, for example, is an entrepreneur,
or has speed or whatever, and the case takes you a while to prepare it.
The time you invest in preparing the interview is time you are going to earn to do the interviews,
because you are going to make them much more agile and much more efficient.
So, first tip, you have to prepare the interview.
Perfect.
That would be the first tip.
The second, ask the candidate for examples of everything.
Because you say, I, maybe, for my company values, I am looking for a proactive and innovative person.
I would ask the candidate, do you consider yourself a proactive person?
And he would say, yes, of course.
So, it is very important that at that moment we say,
I put an example of your day to day where you have shown that proactivity.
That is, that the candidate exemplifies all kinds of behaviors that you are looking for.
Because the curriculum is very easy, the engineer who is an engineer and has studied at a university has the title.
But the attitudinal issues are more difficult to contrast and in the end it is what will differentiate a good candidate from another.
So, second tip, ask the candidate to give you examples of absolutely everything.
There are times, you also have to help the candidates, because there are times when it is difficult for them, because it is not easy.
There is a typical question that is always asked, which are your areas of improvement?
And everyone tells you, I am very perfectionist.
So, in the end you say...
It is that it is always like that, indeed.
Indeed. So, we have to break with that.
Your main weakness, I am very perfectionist.
Because you do it pretending, it is a weakness, but deep down it is what you want.
Indeed. So, in the end, unless you put the candidate in a situation, that is, you do a role play with them.
You hear that every day, right? In a 95%?
In 100% of the interviews, it does not fail. In fact, it is a question that I no longer do.
But you have to put the candidate in a situation, you have to do role plays with them.
That is why preparation is so important, because depending on what you are looking for, you have to apply a mini role play in the interview.
If I am looking for a commercial with business skills, I am going to be a client for two minutes to see the business skills.
Regardless of the business courses that I have given or the business school to which I have gone.
Role play or case, right? It could be...
Yes, a business case, a role play.
A test.
A situation, that is, put the candidate in a situation.
Yes, that's it.
That would be the third tip. Put him in a situation to get those behaviors, those attitudes that you are looking for.
And basically, along with preparing the interview, those would be my three main tips.
Prepare the interview, ask the candidate for examples of absolutely everything, put him in a situation or role plays.
And then another thing that may seem like a big deal is to look for that sparkle in the candidate's eyes.
Confirm that motivation.
I always ask a question that may seem very basic and that people can prepare, but in the end I always tell them,
what is it that differentiates you from the rest of the candidates I am going to interview?
A motivated person is going to tell you a list of brutal things.
A person who is over-the-top or who is not so motivated, maybe none of them come to mind.
Like, well, I'm the best.
Well, but what?
So contrast that motivation, not only go beyond the sparkle in the eyes, which is true,
but also give you reasons why they make you different.
When he shines in the eyes, he will give you the reasons because they will come out naturally.
I always say this, also in companies, for example in startups, where everything has given us a vision
and employees have to share that vision.
Our vision is, we are revolutionizing the world of business training.
And then the one who gets in the car has, as you said, they have to shine in the eyes when we tell them this.
Because if not, it is impossible.
This is like in a relationship.
In a relationship, if at 15 days you are getting tired of the other person or you no longer have enthusiasm,
well, how are we going to... it is impossible.
If at 15 days everything has to be beautiful, there is no longer enthusiasm, how are we going to get to year 5?
It is impossible.
Therefore, you tell him the project, you tell him your vision and as you said, his eyes have to shine.
And confirm that that shine is the motivation you are looking for.
Exactly.
Thank you.